<chapter id="commands">
<title>Command Reference</title>

<sect1 id="kstars-menus">
<title>Menu Commands</title>

<sect2>
<title><guimenu>File</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New Window</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Open another &kstars; window
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>W</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close Window</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Close &kstars; window
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>I</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save Sky Image...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Create image on disk from current display
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Run Script...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Run the specified KStars script
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Print...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Send the current sky map to the printer (or to a
PostScript/PDF file)
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Quit &kstars;
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title><guimenu>Time</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>E</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Time</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Set Time to Now</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Sync time to system clock</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Time</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Set Time...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Set time and date</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Time</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Start/Stop Clock</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggle whether time passes</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title><guimenu>Focus</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>Z</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Focus</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Zenith</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Center at the <link linkend="ai-zenith">Zenith</link>
point (straight up)</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>N</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Focus</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>North</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Center above the North point on the
horizon</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>E</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Focus</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>East</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Center above the East point on the
horizon</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>S</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Focus</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>South</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Center above the South point on the
horizon</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>W</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Focus</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>West</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Center above the West point on the
horizon</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Focus</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find Object</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Locate an object by name using the
<link linkend="findobjects">Find Object Window</link></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>T</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Focus</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Track Object</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggle tracking on/off.  While tracking,
the display will remain centered on the current position or
object.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>M</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Focus</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Set Focus Manually...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens a dialog in which you can enter specific RA/Dec
coordinates to center on.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title><guimenu>View</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>+</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Zoom in</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Zooms view in</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>-</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Zoom out</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Zooms view out</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Default Zoom</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Restore the default Zoom setting</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Zoom to Angular Size...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Zoom to specified field-of-view angle</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Horizontal/Equatorial Coordinates</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggle between the
<link linkend="horizontal">Horizontal</link> and
<link linkend="equatorial">Equatorial</link>
<link linkend="ai-skycoords">Coordinate Systems</link></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Info Boxes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Info Boxes</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggle display of all three Info Boxes
on/off</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Info Boxes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Time</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggle display of the Time Info Box
on/off</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Info Boxes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Focus</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggle display of the Focus Info Box
on/off</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Info Boxes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Location</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggle display of the Location Info Box
on/off</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Toolbars</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Main Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggle display of the Main Toolbar
on/off</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Toolbars</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show View Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggle display of the View Toolbar
on/off</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Color Schemes</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>
This submenu contains all of the defined color schemes, including your
custom schemes.  Selecting an item sets the scheme automatically.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>FOV Symbols</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>
This submenu lists the available field-of-view (FOV) Symbols.
The FOV Symbol is drawn at the center of the display.  You
may choose from the list of predefined symbols (No symbol,
7x35 Binoculars, One degree, or HST WFPC2), or you may define
your own symbols (or modify existing symbols) using the
<guimenuitem>Edit FOV symbols...</guimenuitem> item.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>G</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Set Geographic Location...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Select a new <link linkend="geolocation">geographic
location</link>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &kstars;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Modify <link linkend="config">view
options</link></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title><guimenu>Tools</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Calculator...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Opens the <link linkend="tool-calculator">AstroCalculator</link> Tool,
which provides full access to many of the mathematical functions used by
&kstars;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>AAVSO Light Curves...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Opens the <link linkend="tool-aavso">AAVSO Light Curve Generator</link>
Tool, which allows you to download a light curve for any variable
star from the American Association of Variable Star Observers.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Altitude vs. Time...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Opens the <link linkend="tool-altvstime">Altitude vs. Time</link> Tool, which
can plot curves representing the altitude of any object as a
function of time.  This is useful for planning observing
sessions.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>U</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>What's Up Tonight...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Opens the <link linkend="tool-whatsup">What's Up Tonight</link> Tool,
which presents a summary of the objects which are observable
from your location on a given date.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>B</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Script Builder...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Opens the <link linkend="tool-scriptbuilder">Script Builder</link> Tool,
which provides a GUI interface for building &kstars; DCOP scripts.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Y</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Solar System...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Opens the <link linkend="tool-solarsys">Solar System Viewer</link>,
which displays an overhead view of the solar system on the
current simulation date.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>J</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Jupiter's Moons...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Opens the <link linkend="tool-jmoons">Jupiter Moons Tool</link>,
which displays the positions of Jupiter's four brightest
moons as a function of time.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title><guimenu>Devices</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Devices</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Telescope Wizard</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens up the Telescope Setup Wizard, which provides a
step by step guide to help you connect to your telescope and control it
from &kstars;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Devices</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Device Manager</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens up the device manager, which allows you to start/shutdown device drivers and connect to remote INDI servers.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Devices</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>INDI Control Panel</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens up INDI Control Panel, which allows you to control all the features supported by a device.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Devices</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure INDI</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens up a dialog to configure INDI-related features such as automatic device updates.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title><guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>

&help.menu.documentation;

</sect2>

<sect2 id="popup-menu">
<title>Popup Menu</title>

<para>The <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click popup menu is
context-sensitive, meaning it is different depending on what kind of
object you click on.  We list all possible popup menu items here, with
the object type [in brackets].</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>[All]</term>
<listitem><para>
Identification and type:  The top one to three lines are devoted to the
name(s) of the object, and its type.  For stars, the Spectral Type
is also shown here.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>[All]</term>
<listitem><para>
Rise/Set/Transit times are shown on the next three lines.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>[All]</term>
<listitem><para>
<guimenuitem>Center and Track</guimenuitem>: Center the display
on this location, and engage tracking.  Equivalent to double-clicking.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>[All except Solar System]</term>
<listitem><para>
<guimenuitem>Show 1st/2nd Gen DSS Image</guimenuitem>:
The Digitized Sky Survey is an incredible resource: a photographic
atlas of the entire sky.  Through the miracle of the internet, you can
download a photograph of any patch of sky.  &kstars; provides one-click
access to this database.  There are two generations of the Survey; the
second generation is not yet complete, so you may get an error when
requesting a <quote>2nd Gen DSS</quote> image.  Note that the image
files are large, and may not be very esthetic.  If other images are
available for your object, you should try them first.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>[Messier, Solar System]</term>
<listitem><para>
<guimenuitem>Show SEDS Information
Page</guimenuitem>: The Students For the Exploration and Development
of Space have a <ulink url="http://www.seds.org">wonderful
website</ulink>, which includes very extensive information on the
Solar System and on Messier objects.  &kstars; provides links to these
pages in the popup menu.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>[Messier]</term>
<listitem><para>
<guimenuitem>Show SEDS Image</guimenuitem>: The main image
of this Messier object from the SEDS.org information page.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>[Some Deep-Sky objects]</term>
<listitem><para>
<guimenuitem>Show HST Image</guimenuitem>:
Astronomers using the Hubble Space Telescope periodically publish
beautiful images from the HST as press releases.  Some of these are pretty
famous, and have become cultural icons.  You can access them all through
&kstars;.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>[Some Deep-Sky objects]</term>
<listitem><para>
<guimenuitem>Show KPNO AOP
Image</guimenuitem>: The Kitt Peak National Observatory in Arizona has
a public outreach program called the <ulink
url="http://www.noao.edu/outreach/nop/advanced/advanced.html">Advanced
Observing Program</ulink>, which allows anyone to <quote>rent</quote>
a 16-inch telescope located on Kitt Peak for a night.  This program
has been producing some of the finest amateur astronomy images ever
taken, and we include over 100 of them in our database of links.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>[All Named Objects]</term>
<listitem><para>
<guimenuitem>Add Link...</guimenuitem>: This allows you to add your own
custom links to the popup menu of any object.  It opens a small window
in which you enter the &URL; of the link, and the text you want to
appear in the popup menu.  There is also a pair of radio buttons which
allow you to specify whether the &URL; is an image or an
<acronym>HTML</acronym> document, so &kstars; knows whether to launch
the web browser or the image viewer.  You can use this to add links to
files on your local disk, so this feature could be used to attach
observing logs or other custom information to objects in &kstars;.
Your custom links are automatically loaded whenever &kstars; starts up,
and they are stored in the directory <filename
class="directory">~/.kde/share/apps/kstars/</filename>, in files
<filename>myimage_url.dat</filename> and
<filename>myinfo_url.dat</filename>.  If you build an extensive list
of custom links, consider submitting them to us, we would like to
include them in the next version of &kstars;!
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="kstars-keys">
<title>Keyboard Commands</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term>Arrow Keys</term>
<listitem><para>
Use the arrow keys to pan the display.  Holding down the &Shift;
key doubles the scrolling speed.
</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycap>+</keycap> / <keycap>-</keycap></term>
<listitem><para>Zoom In/Out</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>0&ndash;9</term>
<listitem><para>Center Display on a Solar System object.
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>0: Sun</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>1: Mercury</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>2: Venus</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>3: Moon</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>4: Mars</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>5: Jupiter</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>6: Saturn</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>7: Uranus</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>8: Neptune</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>9: Pluto</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycap>Z</keycap></term>
<listitem><para>Center on the <link linkend="ai-zenith">Zenith</link>
Point (straight up).</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycap>N</keycap></term>
<listitem><para>Center above North horizon.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycap>E</keycap></term>
<listitem><para>Center above East horizon.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycap>S</keycap></term>
<listitem><para>Center above South horizon.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycap>W</keycap></term>
<listitem><para>Center above West horizon.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycap>F1</keycap></term>
<listitem><para>Open the &kstars; Handbook.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Open Find Object Window.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>M</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Specify RA/Dec coordinates to center
on.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>G</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Open Set Geographic Location window.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>E</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Set time to the CPU clock.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Open Set Time window.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>T</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Toggle tracking.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Open the astro calculator.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Open the altitude vs. time tool.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Open the variable-star lightcurve tool.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>U</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Open the what's up tonight tool</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Open another &kstars; window.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>W</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Close a &kstars; window.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Print the current sky map.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</term>
<listitem><para>Quit &kstars;.</para></listitem></varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="kstars-mouse">
<title>Mouse Commands</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term>Moving the mouse</term>
<listitem><para>
The Equatorial (RA, Dec) coordinates of the mouse cursor are updated
in the status bar.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>Clicking</term>
<listitem><para>Identify the object nearest the mouse cursor in the
status bar.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>Double-clicking</term>
<listitem><para>Center and track on the clicked location or object
nearest the mouse cursor.  Double-clicking on an Info Box will
<quote>shade</quote> it to reveal/hide extra information.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>Right-clicking</term>
<listitem><para>Open the popup menu for the location or object nearest
the mouse cursor.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>Scrolling the mouse wheel</term>
<listitem><para>Zoom the display in or out.  If you don't have a
mouse wheel, you can hold the middle mouse button and drag vertically.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>Click-and-dragging</term>
<listitem><para>
	<variablelist>
	<varlistentry><term>Dragging the sky map</term>
	<listitem><para>Pan the display, following the drag motion.
	</para></listitem></varlistentry>
	<varlistentry><term>&Ctrl;+dragging the sky map</term>
	<listitem><para>Define a rectangle in the map.  When the
	mouse button is released, the display is zoomed in to match the
	field-of-view to the bounds of the rectangle.
	</para></listitem></varlistentry>
	<varlistentry><term>Dragging an Info Box</term>
	<listitem><para>The Info Box is repositioned in the map.  Info
	Boxes will <quote>stick</quote> to window edges, so that they
	remain on the edge when the window is resized.
	</para></listitem></varlistentry>
	</variablelist>
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>
</chapter>
