<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1.2-Based Variant V1.0//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kstars;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdeedu">
  <!ENTITY astroinfo SYSTEM "astroinfo.docbook">
  <!ENTITY blackbody SYSTEM "blackbody.docbook">
  <!ENTITY calc-apcoords SYSTEM "calc-apcoords.docbook">
  <!ENTITY calc-eqgal SYSTEM "calc-eqgal.docbook">
  <!ENTITY calc-horiz SYSTEM "calc-horizontal.docbook">
  <!ENTITY calc-precess SYSTEM "calc-precess.docbook">
  <!ENTITY calc-geodetic SYSTEM "calc-geodetic.docbook">
  <!ENTITY calc-dayduration SYSTEM "calc-dayduration.docbook">
  <!ENTITY calc-julian SYSTEM "calc-julianday.docbook">
  <!ENTITY calc-sidereal SYSTEM "calc-sidereal.docbook">
  <!ENTITY calculator SYSTEM "calculator.docbook">
  <!ENTITY colorandtemp SYSTEM "colorandtemp.docbook">
  <!ENTITY commands SYSTEM "commands.docbook">
  <!ENTITY config SYSTEM "config.docbook">
  <!ENTITY contents SYSTEM "ai-contents.docbook">
  <!ENTITY cpoles SYSTEM "cpoles.docbook">
  <!ENTITY credits SYSTEM "credits.docbook">
  <!ENTITY csphere SYSTEM "csphere.docbook">
  <!ENTITY darkmatter SYSTEM "darkmatter.docbook">
  <!ENTITY ecliptic SYSTEM "ecliptic.docbook">
  <!ENTITY ellipgal SYSTEM "ellipticalgalaxies.docbook">
  <!ENTITY equinox SYSTEM "equinox.docbook">
  <!ENTITY faq SYSTEM "faq.docbook">
  <!ENTITY flux SYSTEM "flux.docbook">
  <!ENTITY geocoords SYSTEM "geocoords.docbook">
  <!ENTITY greatcircle SYSTEM "greatcircle.docbook">
  <!ENTITY horizon SYSTEM "horizon.docbook">
  <!ENTITY hourangle SYSTEM "hourangle.docbook">
  <!ENTITY install SYSTEM "install.docbook">
  <!ENTITY julianday SYSTEM "julianday.docbook">
  <!ENTITY leapyear SYSTEM "leapyear.docbook">
  <!ENTITY lightcurves SYSTEM "lightcurves.docbook">
  <!ENTITY luminosity SYSTEM "luminosity.docbook">
  <!ENTITY magnitude SYSTEM "magnitude.docbook">
  <!ENTITY meridian SYSTEM "meridian.docbook">
  <!ENTITY parallax SYSTEM "parallax.docbook">
  <!ENTITY precession SYSTEM "precession.docbook">
  <!ENTITY quicktour SYSTEM "quicktour.docbook">
  <!ENTITY retrograde SYSTEM "retrograde.docbook">
  <!ENTITY sidereal SYSTEM "sidereal.docbook">
  <!ENTITY skycoords SYSTEM "skycoords.docbook">
  <!ENTITY stars SYSTEM "stars.docbook">
  <!ENTITY timezones SYSTEM "timezones.docbook">
  <!ENTITY tool-aavso SYSTEM "lightcurves.docbook">
  <!ENTITY tool-altvstime SYSTEM "altvstime.docbook">
  <!ENTITY tool-calculator SYSTEM "calculator.docbook">
  <!ENTITY tool-details SYSTEM "details.docbook">
  <!ENTITY tool-whatsup SYSTEM "wut.docbook">
  <!ENTITY tools SYSTEM "tools.docbook">
  <!ENTITY utime SYSTEM "utime.docbook">
  <!ENTITY zenith SYSTEM "zenith.docbook">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"><!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &kstars; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Jason</firstname>
<surname>Harris</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>kstars@30doradus.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<othercredit role="developer">
<firstname>Heiko</firstname>
<surname>Evermann</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>heiko@evermann.de</email></address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Core Developer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="developer">
<firstname>Thomas</firstname>
<surname>Kabelmann</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>tk78@gmx.de</email></address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Core Developer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="developer">
<firstname>Pablo</firstname>
<surname>de Vicente</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>pvicentea@wanadoo.es</email></address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Core Developer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="developer">
<firstname>Carsten</firstname>
<surname>Niehaus</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>cniehaus@gmx.de</email></address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Core Developer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="developer">
<firstname>Mark</firstname>
<surname>Holloman</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>mhh@mindspring.com</email></address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Core Developer</contrib>
</othercredit>

</authorgroup>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

<copyright>
<year>2001</year><year>2002</year><year>2003</year>
<holder>Jason Harris and the KStars Team</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2002-10-08</date>
<releaseinfo>1.0</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
&kstars; is a graphical desktop planetarium for KDE.  It depicts an 
accurate simulation of the night sky, including stars, constellations, 
star clusters, nebulae, galaxies, all planets, the Sun, the Moon,  
comets and asteroids.  You can see the sky as it appears 
from any location on Earth, on any date.  The user interface is highly 
intuitive and flexible.  The display can be panned and zoomed with the 
mouse, and you can easily identify objects, and track their motion 
across the sky.  &kstars; includes many powerful features, yet the 
interface is clean and simple, and fun to use.  
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdeedu</keyword>
<keyword>Astronomy</keyword>
<keyword>KStars</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
&kstars; lets you explore the night sky from
the comfort of your computer chair.  It provides an accurate graphical
representation of the night sky for any date, from any location on
Earth.  The display includes 40,000 stars to 8th magnitude (well below
the naked-eye limit), 13,000 deep-sky objects (Messier, NGC and IC
catalogs), all planets, the Sun and Moon, hundreds of comets and 
asteroids, the Milky Way, 88 constellations, and guide lines such as 
the celestial equator, horizon and ecliptic.  
</para>
<para>
However, &kstars; is more than a simple night-sky simulator.  The 
display provides a compelling interface to a number of tools with 
which you can learn more about astronomy and the night sky.  There is 
a customized popup menu attached to each displayed object, which 
provides links to informative webpages and beautiful images of the 
object taken by the Hubble Space Telescope and other telescopes around 
the world.  You can also examine the physical data of the object stored 
in our catalog databases, and connect to online databases used by 
professional astronomers for even more information.  You can even 
attach your own internet links, images and text notes, making &kstars; 
a graphical front-end to your observing logs and your personal 
astronomical notebook.
</para>
<para>
In addition, &kstars; comes with some powerful features for amateur 
and professional astronomers.  Our Astronomical Calculator Tool 
provides direct access to many of the algorithms the program uses 
behind the scenes.  You can also download lightcurves of any variable 
star, compiled by the AAVSO (American Association of Variable Star 
Observers), and plan your observing sessions by plotting the altitude 
of objects as a function of time, for any date.  Or, if that's too much
detail, we also provide a "What's Up Tonight?" Tool that summarizes the 
objects that you will be able to see from your location on any given 
night.
</para>
<para>
Our primary goal is to make &kstars; an interactive educational tool for
learning about astronomy and the night sky.  To this end, the &kstars;
Handbook includes the AstroInfo Project, a series of short, hyperlinked
articles on astronomical topics that can be explored with &kstars;.
Furthermore, we are designing DCOP functions that enable complex 
behaviors to be scripted ahead of time, making &kstars; a powerful
"demo engine" for classroom use or general illustration of astronomical
topics.  At this point, the DCOP scripts must be constructed by hand, 
but in a future version, we will provide a GUI tool for editing 
behavioral scripts easily.
</para>
<para>
We are very interested in your feedback; please report bugs or 
feature requests to the &kstars; development mailing list:
<email>kstars-devel@lists.sourceforge.net</email>. You can also use
the automated bug reporting tool, accessible from the Help menu.
</para>
</chapter>

&quicktour;   <!--A Quick Tour of KStars-->
&config;      <!--Configuring KStars-->
&commands;    <!--Command Reference-->
&astroinfo;   <!--AstroInfo Articles-->
&tools;       <!--The AASVO Lightcurve Tool-->
&faq;         <!--Questions and Answers-->
&credits;     <!--Credits and License-->
&install;     <!--Installation-->

&documentation.index;
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:
-->


