<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<refentry lang="&language;">
<refentryinfo>
<title>KDE User's Manual</title>
<author><personname>
<firstname>Ben</firstname>
<surname>Burton</surname>
</personname>
<email>bab@debian.org</email></author>
<date>May 25, 2005</date>
<productname>K Desktop Environment</productname>
</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>indiserver</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname><command>indiserver</command></refname>
<refpurpose>INDI server for telescope control by KStars</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>indiserver</command>
<group choice="opt"><option>-p <replaceable>port</replaceable></option></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>-r
<replaceable>attempts</replaceable></option></group>
<group><option>-vv</option></group>
<group choice="req" rep="repeat"><option><replaceable>driver</replaceable></option></group>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title>Description</title>
<para>&kstars; allows you to configure and control astronomical instruments
such as telescopes and focusers via the INDI protocol.
<command>indiserver</command> is a server that sits between the &kstars;
user interface and the low-level hardware drivers.</para>
<para>The <acronym>INDI</acronym> server is a network server, int hat either
local or remote clients may connect to it to control astronomical
instruments.  The <acronym>INDI</acronym> server must be running on the
machine that is physically connected to the astronomical instruments.</para>
<note><para>There is usually no need to run the <acronym>INDI</acronym>
server directly.  Using the &kstars; device manager, you can set up
astronomical instruments and start or stop the <acronym>INDI</acronym>
server all from within &kstars;</para></note>
<para>Much more detailed information is available in the &kstars; handbook,
as described below.</para>
<para>&kstars; is a graphical desktop planetarium for &kde;, and forms part
of the &kde; edutainment module.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Options</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-p <replaceable>port</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>Alternate IP port. The default is 7624.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-r
<replaceable>attempts</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>Maximum attempts to restart, in case of a problem.  The
default is 2.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-vv</option></term>
<listitem><para>Be more verbose with output to stderr.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option><replaceable>driver</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>The names of the <acronym>INDI</acronym> drivers to
run.</para>
<para>Currently available are:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><parameter>celestrongps</parameter> (Celestron
GPS)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><parameter>fliccd</parameter> (Finger Lakes Instruments
CCD)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><parameter>lx200_16</parameter> (LX200 16")</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para><parameter>lx200autostar</parameter> (LX200 Autostar)</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para><parameter>lx200classic</parameter> (LX200 Classic)</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para><parameter>lx200generic</parameter> (LX200 Generic)</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para><parameter>lx200gps</parameter> (LX200 GPS)</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para><parameter>temma</parameter> (Temma Takahashi)</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para><parameter>v4ldriver</parameter> (Video4Linux
Generic)</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para><parameter>v4lphilips</parameter> (Philips Webcam)</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>See Also</title>

<para>celestrongps(1), fliccd(1), lx200_16(1), lx200autostar(1), lx200classic(1), lx200generic(1), lx200gps(1), kstars(1), temma(1), v4ldriver(1), v4lphilips(1)</para>

<para>More detailed user documentation is available in the &kstars;
handbook, which you can reach from <ulink url="help:/kstars">help:/kstars</ulink> (either enter this
<acronym>URL</acronym> into &konqueror;, or run
<userinput><command>khelpcenter</command> <parameter>help:/kstars</parameter></userinput>).</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Examples</title>
<para>To start an <acronym>INDI</acronym> server running an LX200 GPS
driver, and listening to connections on port 8000:</para>
<screen><userinput><command>indiserver</command> <option>-p</option> <parameter>8000</parameter> <parameter>lx200gps</parameter></userinput></screen>
</refsect1>
<refsect1>
<title>Authors</title>
<!--FIXME: Who wrote the indiserver? -->
<para>This man page based on the one written for Debian by <personname><firstname>Ben</firstname><surname>Burton</surname></personname> <email>bab@debian.org</email></para>
</refsect1>
</refentry>
